Business plans are useless.
Not only that, but usually what they do is that they lead you to make a mistake.
And I'm going to tell you what usually happens when a company is born.
It usually starts with an idea, a vision, an opportunity that you have identified.
And what you do is, from that idea, you build a business plan.
And also, the more training you have and the more professional experience you have,
your business plan will be more complete.
And you will have taken into account absolutely everything.
It will be a five-year plan in which you have projected everything that is going to happen.
How will the clients react?
How much will they pay for your product?
What will be the retention rate of clients?
What profitability or what customer life value are you going to get from each client?
What are the distribution channels that you are going to use?
Etc.
And you will have everything absolutely projected in your business plan.
And from that business plan, which you believe in,
what you do is execute it.
Then the work begins.
What you do is, well, usually you leave your job,
you leave the job you had, you invest your money,
you associate with people who provide you what you don't have,
you invest in creating that product.
This usually takes a long time and a lot of money.
Well, maybe you've been creating a product for a year that's perfect.
You invest in marketing, in public relations,
you hire a sales team or maybe you do it.
Everything always with the launch date in mind.
And that day comes, a day comes when after a year and a half,
after having spent all the money,
after having fulfilled your business plan exactly as you had planned,
you go to the market.
And what happens almost always?
That the business plan does not support the first contact with the clients,
that nothing happens of what you had planned.
Which is a real drama.
Because a lot of time has passed, you have invested too much money,
you have little margin, etc.
And you don't know why it doesn't happen.
You don't know why what you have planned doesn't happen.
You don't know.
I don't buy the clients, but you don't know why.
That's why I told you that business plans are not only useless,
but many times they are also absolutely counterproductive.
And I'm going to explain to you the reason is that that business plan you have created,
that document or that PowerPoint in which you have invested hundreds of hours,
is based on many hypotheses,
on many assumptions that you have made,
which are really acts of faith.
What am I referring to?
Well, to what I was telling you before,
that you have assumed how the clients are going to respond.
That first you have assumed that the clients want to buy that product that you are creating.
When, as we saw, one of the main causes of the start-ups dying,
is that they build something or make something that nobody wants to buy.
You have given, of course, what the client's profitability is going to be.
You have given, of course, the size of the market.
How the distribution channels are going to work.
If you invest in Facebook, what the return is going to be, etc.
You have given, of course, many things.
And you have committed all the viability of your business, of your project, to those hypotheses.
And what you have done has been to execute that business plan that you made.
You have executed it perfectly, you have done it perfect.
You have been very productive in the cost, in the time that exactly your PowerPoint said.
What happens is that, as always happens,
and I told you, the business plan does not support contact with the clients.
Therefore, what we have to do, and it is what we are going to learn,
is not to execute a plan that we have set up from our office.
No, what we have to do is to put in motion a methodology
that allows us to quickly find a business model that is profitable,
from our vision.
But we have to quickly look for that profitable model
and as soon as we are able to realize that those hypotheses
about which we are building our plan or our strategy are wrong,
the sooner we do it and the less money we have invested in doing it,
much better, because we will have room for maneuver,
to iterate, to pivot, to change until we find it.
This is the key for which many startups fail,
and this is the key for which we need a method that allows us to respond to this challenge.
Find a business model that is profitable and sustainable,
investing as little time as possible.